In the last couple of videos, we've spoken a little bit about air handling, and now we're at the point
where I think that we've got two distinct driving forces in doing all this air handling stuff.
So issue number one, with air handling, we need to make sure that we always have a very consistently
structured response from all of our different services we put together.
And no matter what goes wrong in any of those services, whether it is some invalid data into a request
handler or an error in database access or some other error, we need to make sure that we somehow capture
all those different things successfully and structure the air response in some very consistent fashion.
That is driving force, number one.
And number two, let's talk about how we are going to solve each of these issues.
All right.
So a little solution here.
So to make sure that we always capture all errors and process them and structure them in some identical,
consistent fashion, we're going to write an error handling middleware.
We're then going to wire that up to express.
And any time that something goes wrong inside of our application, Express is going to capture some
kind of air and send it to our air handling middleware.
So we're going to do some processing inside of this area, handling middleware.
The other big thing, we need to make sure that no matter what goes wrong, no matter where some error
occurs, we'd need to somehow capture it and send it off to express so that it can be forwarded on to
our error handling middleware.
So we are going to make sure that we capture all possible errors inside of all of our different request
handlers.
And any time something goes wrong, we're going to pass the error off to express.
And effectively, that really just means using the next function inside of our request handlers.
That might not make a lot of sense right now.
So let me give you a quick reminder on how express does error handling in general.
I'm taking a look at the express air handling documentation right here.
So there are several sections inside of here.
Overall, it's a two step process for dealing with errors inside of Express.
First off, if anything ever goes wrong inside of a synchronous root handler, and that's what you see
right here, it is a synchronous root handler because there is no async code inside of it.
No callbacks, no promises, no async await.
If anything ever throws an error, the next press is going to automatically capture that error and forward
it on to any air handling middleware that you and I have authored.
We can then do some processing on the air and automatically send a response back.
The second case in which we'll get an error is when we do have an async request handler.
So this is an example of an async request handler because it has an async callback inside of here.
This code is going to try to read a file off the hard drive, and then at some point in time the future
that callback function gets invoked.
This is also appropriate or relevant if we are making use of promises or the async await syntax.
So if we have an async route handler and something goes wrong, you and I need to manually capture that
error either by receiving it as an argument into a callback function or setting up a tri catch block.
We're then going to take that error and pass it off to the next function that is provided automatically
into our root handler.
So again, we've got scenario number one, but they synchronous root handler express is going to take
care of that automatically for us.
And scenario number two, where we have an async root handler and that is going to be any root handler
that makes use of a callback function promise or async await syntax.
So that is how we're going to somehow capture an air and pass it off to the next function to actually
build a air handling middleware.
Let me give you a quick reminder on that as well.
On the same documentation page, I'm going to scroll down a little bit.
And there are some directions on here for writing an error handler.
So we define a middleware function, and all we have to do is make sure that the middleware function
is going to receive four different arguments.
Whenever we pass a middleware into Express, it's going to automatically parse that function and count
the number of arguments.
So Express is essentially aware of the number of arguments that are going into a middleware.
If we have a middleware function with four arguments, Express is going to assume that this is a function
meant to handle errors that occur inside of one of our different root handlers.
So you and I are going to write out a function that looks very similar to this right here.
We're going to make sure that any time it gets called, we somehow inspect that error to figure out
what goes wrong and then automatically send a response back.
Now in all this stuff, you're going to start to see that there are a couple of interesting corner cases.
So right now I'm presenting you a very simple and straightforward way of dealing with this stuff.
But we are going to polish this stuff up beyond what you see in this documentation to a pretty good
degree.
And we're going to eventually have a pretty sweet little error handling process.
And now that we understand the two general things that we're going to do here.
Number one, we're going to make sure we capture all possible errors.
Number two, we're also going to write an error handling middleware.
Let's take a pause right here and start to implement both these things in the next video.